Review and update our Pull Request review process and policy (#36472)
mistercrunch/Airflow: CONTRIBUTING.rst

If you are new to the project, you might need some help in understanding how the dynamics
of the community works and you might need to get some mentorship from other members of the
community - mostly Airflow committers (maintainers). Mentoring new members of the community is part of
maintainers job so do not be afraid of asking them to help you. You can do it
via comments in your PR, asking on a devlist or via Slack. For your convenience,
we have a dedicated #development-first-pr-support Slack channel where you can ask any questions

> about making your first PR contribution to the Airflow codebase - it's a safe space

Reviewer: I'd propose to leave it as long writing here as the term is mentioned the first time at this position. If you add the abbreviation here, you can take the short form in any later text part.
```suggestion
about making your first Pull Request (PR) contribution to the Airflow codebase - it's a safe space
```

   PR guidelines described in `pull request guidelines <#pull-request-guidelines>`_.
   Create Pull Request! Make yourself ready for the discussion!

5. The ``static checks`` and ``tests`` in your PR serve as a first-line-of-check, whether the PR
   passes the quality bar for Airflow. It basically means that until you get your PR green, it is not
   likely to get reviewed by committers unless you specifically ask for it and explain that you would like
   to get first pass of reviews and explain why achieving ``green`` status for it is not easy/feasible/desired.
   Similarly if your PR contains ``[WIP]`` in the title or it is marked as ``Draft`` it is not likely to get

>    reviewed by committers unless you specifically ask for it and explain why and what specifically you want

Reviewer 2: We should use the word: `maintainers` here instead

   to get reviewed before it reaches ``Ready for review`` status. This might happen if you want to get initial
   feedback on the direction of your PR or if you want to get feedback on the design of your PR.

> 6. Avoid @-mentioning individual committers in your PR, unless you have good reason to believe that they are

Reviewer 3: A general question on the usage of the word `committers` throughout here. Do we think the word `maintainers` could apply here more than `committers`?

Author: Good question. We use the term interchangeably - Committer is more formal ASF role, while being maintainer is more GitHub / Generic Open-Source term describing person who has the privilege and responsibility to maintain the repo. In our case the two are the same basically. I attempted to explain the dualism in updated text of the PR and correct "committer" to "maintainer" when it relates to "GitHub" related stuff and "committer" when it relates to more formal role (I think at least I managed to do it). This way we keep both term in use and it maybe even won't look strange.

   available, have time and interest in your PR. Generally speaking there are no "exclusive" reviewers for

>    different parts of the code and reviewers review PRs and respond when they have some free time to spare and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   different parts of the code. Reviewers review PRs and respond when they have some free time to spare and
```

   when they feel they can provide valuable feedback. If you want to get attention of committers, you can just
   follow-up on your PR and ask for review in general, however be considerate and do not expect "immediate"

>    reviews. People review when they have time, most of the people who are committers do such reviews in their

Reviewer 2: nit: Most committers review pull requests

Author: yeah

   free time, which is taken away from their families and other interests so allow sufficient time before you

>    follow-up - but If you see no reaction in several days, do follow-up, as with the number of PRs we have

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   follow-up - but if you see no reaction in several days, do follow-up, as with the number of PRs we have
```

Author: Yep

>    follow-up - but If you see no reaction in several days, do follow-up, as with the number of PRs we have

Reviewer 2: nit: `if` small case

Author: yep

Note that committers will use **Squash and Merge** instead of **Rebase and Merge**
when merging PRs and your commit will be squashed to single commit.

> When the maintainer starts conversations it is expected that you respond to questions, suggestions, doubts,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a reviewer starts a conversation it is expected that you respond to questions, suggestions, doubts,
```
I think the check for the necessity of resolved conversations would apply to all conversations irrespective of it being from a maintainer or not, right?

Author: Good point

necessarily have to apply all the suggestions (often they are just opinions and suggestions even if they are
coming from seasoned maintainers) - it's perfectly ok that you respond to it with your own opinions and
understanding of the problem and your approach and if you have good arguments, presenting them is a good idea.

The reviewers might leave several types of responses:

* ``General PR comment`` - which usually means that there is a question/opinion/suggestion on how the PR can be
  improved, or it's an ask to explain how you understand the PR. You can usually quote some parts of such
  general comment and respond to it in your comments. Often comments that are raising questions in general
  might lead to different discussions, even a request to move the discussion to the devlist or even lead to
  completely new PRs created as a spin-off of the discussion.

* ``Comment/Conversation around specific lines of code`` - such conversation usually flags a potential
  improvement, or a potential problem with the code. It's a good idea to respond to such comments and explain
  your approach and understanding of the problem. If you do not agree with the comment, you can explain why

>   you think your approach is better. If you agree with the comment, you can explain why you did not do it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  you think your approach is better. If you agree with the comment, you can optionally explain why you did not do it
```
Can we make this optional, please? IMO, I would generally not have thought of the approach in the first place or I would have been naive/unaware/beginner.

Author: I think I tried to be too detailed here. I rephrased this whole chapter a bit.

  this way in the first place. If you agree with the comment and you think it's a good idea, you can just
  apply the suggestion and push the change to your PR. You can also resolve the conversation if you think the
  problem raised in the comment or ask the reviewer to re-review, confirm it and resolve the conversation if
  you are not sure. If you do not understand the comment, you can ask for clarifications. Generally assume
  good intention of the person who is reviewing your code, they are not criticising you, at most they care
  about the quality of the code and the project and want to make sure that the code is as good as possible.

>   It's ok to mark the conversation resolved by anyone who can do it - it could be the author, that thinks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  It's ok to mark the conversation resolved by anyone who can do it - it could be the author who thinks
```

Author: yes

  the arguments are changes implemented make the conversation resolved, or the maintainer/person who
  started the conversation or it can be even marked as resolved by the maintainer who attempts to merge the
  PR and thinks that all conversations are resolved. However if you want to make sure attention and decision
  on merging the PR is given by maintainer, make sure you monitor, follow-up and close the conversations when
  you think they are resolved (ideally explaining why you think the conversation is resolved).

* ``Request changes`` - this is where maintainer is pretty sure that you should make a change to your PR
  because it contains serious flaw, design misconception, or a bug or it is just not in-line with the common
  approach Airflow community took on the issue. Usually you should respond to such request and either fix
  the problem or convince the maintainer that they were wrong (it happens more often than you think).
  Sometimes even if you do not agree with the request, it's a good idea to make the change anyway, because
  it might be a good idea to follow the common approach in the project. Sometimes it might even happen that

>   two maintainer will have completely different opinions on the same issue and you will have to lead the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  two maintainers will have completely different opinions on the same issue and you will have to lead the
```

Author: yep

  the right to veto any code modification according to the `Apache Software Foundation rules <https://www.apache.org/foundation/voting.html#votes-on-code-modification>`_.

* ``Approval`` - this is given by a maintainer after the code has been reviewed and the maintainer agrees that
  it is a good idea to merge it. There might still be some unresolved conversations, requests and questions on
  such PR and you are expected to resolve them before the PR is merged. But the ``Approval`` status is a sign
  of trust from the maintainer who gave the approval that they think the PR is good enough as long as their
  comments will be resolved and they put the trust in the hands of the author and - possibly - other
  maintainers who will merge the request that they can do that without follow-up re-review and verification.

You need to have ``Approval`` of at least one committer (if you are committer yourself, it has to be
another committer). Ideally you should have 2 or more committers reviewing the code that touches
the core of Airflow - we do not have enforcement about ``2+`` reviewers required for Core of Airflow,

> but Maintainers will generally ask in the PR if they think second review is needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
but maintainers will generally ask in the PR if they think second review is needed.
```

Author: ups

> Your PR can be merged by the reviewer or another maintainer who will see that the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your PR can be merged by a maintainer who will see that the
```

Author: shorter indeed.

PR is approved, all conversations are resolved and the code looks good. The criteria for PR
being merge-able are:

* ``green status for static checks and tests``
* ``conversations resolved``

> * ``Approval from 1 (or more for core changes) maintainers``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``approval from 1 (or more for core changes) maintainers``
```

Author: yep

* no unresolved ``Request changes``

Once you reach the status, you do not need to do anything to get the PR merged. One of the maintainers

> will merge such PR. However if you see that for a few days such PR is not merged, do not hesitate to comment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will merge such PRs. However if you see that for a few days such a PR is not merged, do not hesitate to comment
```

Author: yep

> on your PR and mention that you think it is ready to be merged. Also it's a good practice to rebase your PR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
on your PR and mention that you think it is ready to be merged. Also, it's a good practice to rebase your PR
```

to latest ``main``, because there could be other changes merged in the meantime that might cause conflicts or
fail tests or static checks, so by rebasing a PR that has been build few days ago you make sure that it
still passes the tests and static checks today.

.. note:: |experimental|

   In December 2023 we enabled - experimentally - the requirement to resolve all the open conversations in a
   PR in order to make it merge-able. You will see in the status of the PR that it needs to have all the
   conversations resolved before it can be merged.

   This is an experiment and we will evaluate by the end of January 2024. If it turns out to be a good idea,
   we will keep it enabled in the future.

   The goal of this experiment is to make it easier to see when there are some conversations that are not
   resolved for everyone involved in the PR - author, reviewers and maintainers who try to figure out if

>    the PR is ready to merge and ... merge it. The goal is also to use conversations more as a "soft" way

Reviewer 2: The ... is intentional?

Author: Yeah. I use ellipsis too much as well. Changed to more explicit ` - eventually - `

  general comment and respond to it in your comments. Often comments that are raising questions in general
  might lead to different discussions, even a request to move the discussion to the devlist or even lead to
  completely new PRs created as a spin-off of the discussion.

* ``Comment/Conversation around specific lines of code`` - such conversation usually flags a potential
  improvement, or a potential problem with the code. It's a good idea to respond to such comments and explain
  your approach and understanding of the problem. The whole idea of a conversation is try to reach a consensus
  on a good way to address the problem. As an author you can resolve the conversation if you think the
  problem raised in the comment is resolved or ask the reviewer to re-review, confirm If you do not understand
  the comment, you can ask for clarifications. Generally assume good intention of the person who is reviewing
  your code and resolve conversations also having good intentions. Understand that it's not a person that
  is criticised or argued with, but rather the code and the approach. The important thing is to take care

>   about quality of the the code and the project and want to make sure that the code is good

Reviewer: Period.
```suggestion
  about quality of the the code and the project and want to make sure that the code is good.
```

-   Follow our project's `Coding style and best practices`_. Usually we attempt to enforce the practices by
    having appropriate pre-commits. There are checks amongst them that aren't currently enforced
    programmatically (either because they are too hard or just not yet done).

-   We prefer that you ``rebase`` your PR (and do it quite often) rather than merge. It leads to
    easier reviews and cleaner changes where you know exactly what changes you've done. You can learn more
    about rebase vs. merge workflow in `Rebase and merge your pull request <https://github.blog/2016-09-26-rebase-and-merge-pull-requests/>`__
    and `Rebase your fork <http://stackoverflow.com/a/7244456/1110993>`__. Make sure to resolve all conflicts
    during rebase.

-   When merging PRs, Maintainer will use **Squash and Merge** which means then your PR will be merged as one
    commit, regardless of the number of commits in your PR. During the review cycle, you can keep a commit
    history for easier review, but if you need to, you can also squash all commits to reduce the
    maintenance burden during rebase.

> -   Add an `Apache License <http://www.apache.org/legal/src-headers.html>`__ header to all new files. If you
>     have ``pre-commit`` installed, pre-commit will do it automatically for you. This is one of the reasons
>     why we recommend using ``pre-commit``.

Reviewer: I'd leave out the third sentence to make it shorter - but don't take this comment too serious :-D Just assuming somebody has read the text above.
```suggestion
-   Add an `Apache License <http://www.apache.org/legal/src-headers.html>`__ header to all new files. If you
    have ``pre-commit`` installed, pre-commit will do it automatically for you.
```

Author: I reworded it. My main point is that `pre-commit` saves you from all those kind of mundane and repetitive things that people are wining about. For me `pre-commit` adding licence headers is THE huge win that justifies the little slow-down when committing.

Before you submit a pull request (PR) from your forked repo, check that it meets
these guidelines:

-   Include tests, either as doctests, unit tests, or both, to your pull request.

    The airflow repo uses `GitHub Actions <https://help.github.com/en/actions>`__ to
    run the tests and `codecov <https://codecov.io/gh/apache/airflow>`__ to track
    coverage. You can set up both for free on your fork. It will help you make sure you do not
    break the build with your PR and that you help increase coverage.
    Also we advise to install locally `pre-commit hooks <STATIC_CODE_CHECKS.rst#pre-commit-hooks>`__ to

>     apply various checks, code generation and formatting locally at the time you make a local commit - which

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    apply various checks, code generation and formatting at the time you make a local commit - which
```

Author: oh yeah. repeated.

    gives you near-immediate feedback on things you need to fix before you push your code to the PR, or in
    many case it will even fix it for you locally so that you can add and commit it straight away.

-   Follow our project's `Coding style and best practices`_. Usually we attempt to enforce the practices by

>     having appropriate pre-commits These are things amongst them that aren't currently enforced

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    having appropriate pre-commits. These are things amongst them that aren't currently enforced
```

Author: yep

    programmatically (either because they are too hard or just not yet done).

> -   We prefer that you ``rebase`` your Pull Request (and do it quite often) rather than merge. It leads to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-   We prefer that you ``rebase`` your pull request (and do it quite often) rather than merge. It leads to
```

nitpick: I saw lower case is used elsewhere. not sure whether we should use upper case here

Author: I looked at it and I wil use "Pull Request (PR)" at the beginning of a chaper and later in the same chapter will just use PR. It's commonly used acronym and good practice is to introduce a term with acronym at the beginning and then just use acronmy in each chapter that can be read separately.

    easier reviews and cleaner changes where you know exactly what changes you've done. You can learn more
    about rebase vs. merge workflow in `Rebase and merge your pull request <https://github.blog/2016-09-26-rebase-and-merge-pull-requests/>`__
    and `Rebase your fork <http://stackoverflow.com/a/7244456/1110993>`__. Make sure to resolve all conflicts
    during rebase.

-   When merging PRs, Committer will use **Squash and Merge** which means then your PR will be merged as one
    commit, regardless of the number of commits in your PR. During the review cycle, you can keep a commit
    history for easier review, but if you need to, you can also squash all commits to reduce the
    maintenance burden during rebase.

-   Add an `Apache License <http://www.apache.org/legal/src-headers.html>`__ header to all new files (if you
    have ``pre-commit`` installed, pre-commit will do it automatically for you. This is one of the reasons

>     why we recommend using ``pre-commit``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    why we recommend using ``pre-commit``).
```

Author: Removed the parenthesis instead. I use them far too much.

-   If your pull request adds functionality, make sure to update the docs as part of the same PR, not only

>     code and tests. Doc string is often sufficient. Make sure to follow the Sphinx compatible standards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    code and tests. Docstring is often sufficient. Make sure to follow the sphinx compatible standards.
```

Author: yep

-   Make sure your code fulfills all the
    `static code checks <STATIC_CODE_CHECKS.rst#static-code-checks>`__ we have in our code. The easiest way
    to make sure of that is - again - to install `pre-commit hooks <STATIC_CODE_CHECKS.rst#pre-commit-hooks>`__

> -   Make your PR small and focuses on one change only - avoid adding unrelated changes, mixing adding features

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   Make your PR small and focused on one change only - avoid adding unrelated changes, mixing adding features
```

Author: yep

>     and refactoring. Keeping to that rule will make it easier to review your PR and will make it easier to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    and refactoring. Keeping to that rule will make it easier to review your PR and will make it easier 
```

Author: yep

    for release managers if they decide that your change should be cherry-picked to release it in a bug-fix
    release of Airflow. If you want to add a new feature and refactor the code, it's better to split the
    PR to several smaller PRs. It's also quite a good and common idea to keep a big ``Draft`` PR if you have
    a bigger change that you want to make and then create smaller PRs from it that are easier to review and

>     merge and cherry-pick. It take a long time (and a lot of attention and focus of a reviewer to review

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    merge and cherry-pick. It takes a long time (and a lot of attention and focus) of a reviewer to review
```

Author: yes

    useful features from newer versions.

-   Adhere to guidelines for commit messages described in this `article <http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/>`__.

>     This makes the lives of those who come after you (and your future self) a lot easier.

Reviewer 2: Good addition! 🤣

Author: Oh absolutely. People might think I write such long commit messages and docs for others, but in fact, I do it for my future solf mostly. And i saved me multiple hours, and likely days of head scratching in the past.

Reviewer 2: Agreed. No harm in more details!

Coding style and best practices
===============================

> Most of our coding style rules are enforced programmatically by ruff and mypy , which are run automatically
> on every Pull Request (PR), but there are some rules that are not yet automated and are more Airflow specific or
> semantic than style

Reviewer: Spacing and adding a reference to static checks.
```suggestion
Most of our coding style rules are enforced programmatically by ruff and mypy, which are run automatically
with static checks and on every Pull Request (PR), but there are some rules that are not yet automated and
are more Airflow specific or semantic than style.
```

Author: nice clarification.
